[Music]
welcome to a special edition of system
update I'm Glenn Greenwald tomorrow our
regularly scheduled show will appear in
the intercepts YouTube program at 2:00
o'clock p.m. Eastern knots on Wednesday
and that's devoted to exploring the
mental health ramifications of the
corona virus pandemic as well as the
measures of isolation and Quarantine
that we're undertaking in response to it
but for today I have a special edition
of the show that is a response to recent
news events including the announcement
by Bernie Sanders that he's endorsing
Joe Biden devoted to exploring the
relationship between supporters of the
Bernie Sanders campaign and the left
generally on the one hand and the Joe
Biden presidential campaign on the other
and to help me explore those questions
I'm joined by two very special guests
one of whom is Brianna joy gray longtime
press secretary of the Bernie Sanders
campaign who will be with me in just a
few minutes for now I have welcoming to
the show the host of the very popular
podcast the Benjamin Dixon show who was
responsible for some of the most
consequential and devastating scoops
about Michael Bloomberg and his
candidacy Benjamin Dixon Ben thank you
so much for taking the time to talk to
me and it's a pleasure good to be here
yeah I'm glad you could make it
um so there's obviously a campaign
underway in the wake of not just Bernie
Sanders announcement that he's
suspending his campaign but particularly
that he's endorsing Joe Biden which was
made on Monday as part of a live stream
with Biden where Bernie Sanders
announced that he would do everything
possible to help elect Biden the next
president and defeat Donald Trump and
there's been a campaign to persuade or
I'd say more cajole and coerce
supporters of senator Sanders campaign
to follow him in doing that what is your
perspective on that call to follow in
senator Sanders footsteps and endorse
Joe Biden I mean I think the first thing
is it puts the cult of personality
argument of Bernie supporters to rest
because there's so many Bernie
supporters who
made it clear that they are not going to
follow Bernie Sanders in their
endorsement of Bernie's of Joe Biden and
it also just speaks to the fact that
he's a man of his word I mean he's been
saying they say it is even though it was
a little disappointing for a lot of
people I don't think it should have been
a surprise for anyone because he's been
saying this since day one that whoever
would be the nominee that he would
support them so he's keeping his word
and it really just shows that the people
who supported him they weren't there
just because of Bernie Sanders the
personality they were there because of
the policies that he was supporting and
so there's a huge disconnect between
what Joe Biden is offering versus what
the people who supported Bernie Sanders
are looking for yeah I mean Bernie
Sanders in 2016 once he finally dropped
out of the race and acknowledged that he
wouldn't be the nominee through his
support behind Hillary Clinton he toured
the country holding rallies for her and
famously stood up in the convention
floor when a lot of his delegates were
quite angry and boisterous about that
anger and was the one who put her over
the edge by pledging all of his
delegates to her so it shouldn't come as
a surprise to anybody surprised or not
though there are a lot of people who
aren't willing to follow in senator
Sanders footsteps as you said there are
a lot of people who are exercising their
independent judgement which is contrary
to the cult right personality of other
the cult personality a narrative that
has been propagated for years now about
the Sanders campaign what is your
personal view on that question about
whether you intend to devote your
resources and your energies to
supporting Joba you know what I'm
dedicating my show to is really
empowering people to make that decision
for themselves because I think that's
the most important thing what I don't
think is appropriate at this point is
for people to use their platforms as a
bludgeoning tool because if you're
honestly trying to convince people and
persuade people to move from no I won't
support Joe Biden or I'm undecided you
can't do it by bashing them across the
head rhetorically speaking obviously
anyone who's been in this commentary or
this pundit tree game for a while you
have to understand that you have to give
the people some space and let them vent
let them feel what they are feeling and
that's really what I'm using my platform
for is because I have a lot of
supporters of my show who are going to
vote for Joe Biden then I have a lot
more who are not going to vote for Joe
Biden and so let them sort it out for
them
they they are independent thinkers they
have free agency they can make the
decision for themselves and they make a
good argument I mean if you listen to
either group either camp they make a
very valid argument why you should vote
for Joe Biden and why you shouldn't for
me personally I'm more focused on
whether or not we're gonna have Mellon
ballots because I think this sleeper
issue at this time is the coronavirus
and whether or not people are going to
have to physically go to the polls and
for me personally like I'm not going to
physically go to any polls so long as we
don't have a vaccine so I think that's a
very significant under it's a back story
that's happening right now that we're
not really paying that much attention to
in terms of the inner in terms of the
bickering that's going on back and forth
I think it might all be academic if we
don't secure mail-in ballots yeah you
know it's really interesting on that's
always been my posture as well when
people have asked me for whom do you
intend to vote who do you think other
people's if over I think it's incredibly
presumptuous and even bizarre to think
that I should or can dictate to other
people who they ought to vote for I view
much more view my role similar to what
you're describing is providing
information as providing the space to
have rational free discussions where
people aren't stigmatized one way or the
other and allow other people to make up
their minds rather than trying to force
them or push them but I do want to ask
you about some of the arguments that are
being invoked on both sides and I'm
particularly interested in the group of
people that you know well who are your
listeners who are currently of the
mindset that they're either not willing
to commit to Joe Biden or saying that
they never will one of the things that
strikes me is that in politics generally
the way that you move people is you
convince them that if they take a
certain action if they support a certain
candidate their lives are gonna get
better or the lives of the people that
they care about most are going to
improve that's something at Donald Trump
as a con man did really well in 2016 he
made promises that he never could keep
never intended to keep like going to us
Virginia and saying I'm gonna bring back
your your coal jobs and I heard people
in my Virginian say look we knew it was
bullshit we knew he wasn't gonna bring
our coal jobs back but at least he was
talking about it would signal that he
realized we were suffering and that we
wanted to hear a solution so one of the
things that I'm looking for and
listening to among the people trying to
push people to support Biden who
or either reluctant or refusing our
arguments about why they ought to based
on concrete benefits that will accrue to
their lives or the lives of people they
care about it they do and what I'm
hearing instead is something much
different this kind of manipulative
argument that if you don't do it it
means you're privileged you don't care
sufficiently for marginalized people
even though a lot of people refusing are
themselves in marginalized groups what
do you think needs to be demonstrated it
needs to be done and said to reach as
many people as possible who are in that
group that you describe people who you
know but who are reluctant to or even
refusing to support Joe Biden yeah so
there's a couple of things there right I
read your article about the argument
about the privilege and I and I think
that has to be that can't be overstated
there are so many people who are
marginalized who are making the
conscious decision to not support Joe
Biden because they don't see that there
is a any type of material benefit for
them in doing so he really was not
I mean he's starting to change its tone
a little bit now that the primaries are
over saying that you know well we can't
afford to go back to normal but
everything up to this point his entire
platform was let's go back to normal
well normal for a lot of people is
really bad right normal for a lot of
people who are living in marginalized
communities says that the government and
politicians don't care about us
whatsoever and so I think it's a
incredibly disingenuous for someone to
say that mark that if you don't vote
that you're privileged when we could see
like particularly in the black community
there are thousands upon thousands
hundreds of thousands into the millions
of black people who will not participate
in the system because they feel neither
party is going to provide any material
benefit even now I'm a part of a group
of a lot of black leftists who are all
making the argument that voting for Joe
Biden is insufficient because he is not
going to provide any material benefit
for them for us because if that's what
he was saying throughout his whole
platform we're gonna go back to normal
when norm but really wasn't good for a
lot of black people in this country yeah
it's it's really interesting I think one
of the things that happened after the
2016 election was there was a search for
villains to blame Russia to blame
WikiLeaks to blame Jim Comey to blame
the New York Times I and very little
self-reflection and one of the
the key and crucial facts that would
have been discovered had there been self
reflection on the part of the party or
the the Clinton campaign was that a big
reason why they lost those swing state
votes isn't necessarily because their
key constituents went and voted for
Donald Trump's because they just stayed
at home and there were articles
interviewing people kind of anecdotally
but also data about why that was and
they said exactly what you just said
which was we don't think that it was
worth it like spending an hour or two
hours or five hours in a polling line to
vote for a candidate that we don't think
is actually going to improve our lives
regardless of who wins is gonna affect
our lives in any significant way do you
have hopes that the Democratic Party
does recognize that and will make the
kinds of concessions not just
rhetorically but substantively that
needs to be made to demonstrate that
they are in that lesson no I don't you
know I guess if you view this to the
lens of harm reduction then you're gonna
say okay the Democrats are bad but
they're not as bad as Donald Trump so
that's an argument that I'm hearing
everywhere but in terms of you're just
straight on the merits of your question
no I don't even think that the Democrats
actually want to win if I keep it 100
with you I think that they're just going
through some type of performance to
protect their power and buy power I mean
jobs they're their resources the
consulting class all of that was
threatened by Bernie Sanders and now
that Bernie Sanders is out of the race
you know their jobs are secure the
consulting class is going to make their
money regardless of who wins I mean the
Democratic consultants they are going to
make into the tens of millions into the
hundreds of millions out for this race
so if even if Donald Trump wins they
still get what they needed
what threaten them really was a
candidacy the candidacy if Bernie
Sanders got the nomination that would
have been a material threat to them and
so I don't really think um excuse me I
don't really think that they have any
intention and and winning just
performing that's just my take I know a
lot of people may disagree with that but
everything up to this point if they were
serious about be Donald Trump then they
really picked the very worst candidate
they possibly could to do that yeah I
think you saw other than 2016 in the
Republican side were so many lifelong
Republican consultants who had no
problem with working with Ferrando
Reagan no
problem working for Karl Rove on behalf
of George Bush and Dick Cheney suddenly
declare that they found Donald Trump's
so offensive so intolerable even though
he was a conventional Republican in
every significant way eventually and the
reason was because he was an outsider
who wasn't gonna assure them into power
their livelihoods were threatened as GOP
consultants as GOP operatives that was
the reason they were and continue to be
so vehemently opposed to Trump they
would have been fine with Marco Rubio or
Jeb Bush or even Ted Cruz anyone who
occurs their power right that's they
were desperately trying to get behind
anyone so let me ask you as the last
question but not about the Biden
campaign but about the movement that
grew up around Bernie Sanders because
they think a lot of people who who are
independently in critically minded
understood that Bernie Sanders was
always kind of an imperfect vessel for
this political revolution he's been in
Washington for decades he's been in the
Senate he's been working alongside those
Democrats it's hard to really have the
right kind of animosity that you need
for people that are essentially your
work colleagues like he clearly likes
Joe Biden personally and that makes it a
little bit difficult to channel a lot of
the rage against the establishment that
Trump had succeeded in channelling
against the GOP establishment but where
does this movement this kind of
left-wing populist working-class
movement go from here now that the
Sanders campaign is done is the solution
to continue to stay attached to the
Democratic Party or to say the
Democratic Party is not ours maybe one
day it will be ours but for now it's not
we need to start looking for other
avenues to accrue power and if so what
are those other avenues yeah I think the
number one thing we have to do is to
remain consistent and to not and not to
fall back completely I think everyone is
going to need a little break I think
people who pour the most into this
campaign people who flew all around this
country to volunteer people who phone
banked and text with Bernie Sanders I
think they're disillusioned and right
rightfully so I mean that's they put all
of their heart into this campaign and
they suffered we suffered a really
crushing blow so they're gonna need to
take some time off but I don't want them
to stay away too long because I see it
personally as a two year and a four year
head start on the next campaigns and
that we don't focus solely on electoral
politics that we get on the
ground organizing so that we can show
the communities that we purport to serve
that we are there not just when it's
election year but we're there year-round
24/7 and I think if we put our energy
into organizing on a local level on a
state level and as well as on a national
level and we begin to do so now continue
to do so not begin but continue to do so
then we can build the power we can build
the credibility and we can build the
organizations that we need to really
bring truth to power well then let me
congratulate you on really not just
elevating your platform but having a
huge impact on the presidential thing
Mary I think there was no person who did
more to torpedo than Michael Bloomberg
candidacy than you did maybe Elizabeth
Warren in that debate can compete with
you but I think you really laid the
foundation for for the attacks that
ended up torpedoing what was really a
menacing candidacy in so many ways
and graduation on the platform that
you're building is well I think you've
been an incredibly important voice in a
lot of these issues and I'm sure you'll
continue to be so thanks for taking the
time to talk to me thanks Glenn it means
a lot all right all right thanks Ben
I'm joined now by another special guest
who was until extremely recently the
press secretary for the Bernie Sanders
campaign prior to that she was my
colleague at the intercept where she was
the politics editor Brianna joy gray
Brianna thank you so much for taking the
time to talk to me yeah it's good to see
you so obviously this is a big
adjustment for you and everybody else
who worked on the standards campaign
given that the campaign not only just
came to an end but also senator Sanders
announced on a live stream yesterday
with Joe Biden that he was throwing his
unvarnished and full support behind the
Biden campaign and made an argument
about why he thinks his supporters ought
to do that and yet very quickly you
announce in your individual capacity
that you don't intend to endorse in your
words Joe Biden there's a campaign
underway to kind of coerce or bully or
cajole or I guess in some cases I
haven't seen it yet persuade Sanders
supporters to following senator Sanders
footsteps and get behind Joe Biden but
at least as of now you say that you're
not going to what is the rationale for
your decision it
as of now not to support the Biden
candidacy
well first don't want to say as I did in
my tweet I just have the most respect
for Bernie Sanders and the decision that
he made we play very different roles he
is a sitting senator he has different
political commitments and rationale that
I'm not privy to in their entirety and
you know I'm only here as you know it's
a difficult decision for me to leave the
intercept which was an amazing job an
amazing experience and the only reason I
left is because of how committed I was
to the policy platform that Bernie
Sanders was running on and I felt as
though if he called on me if the
campaign wanted me to participate this
meant enough it was such a unique and
historic opportunity that it was worth
leaving a job that I really loved to do
and that commitment my commitment to
those underlying policies hasn't changed
now that Bernie Sanders isn't in the
race and so while I respect his decision
my hope is that if Joe Biden is in fact
going to be the nominee but he makes
significantly more American concessions
than he has done so far and I think that
although a lot of times for any Sanders
supporters for caricature it has somehow
members of a call to it you know do
whatever he said the reality is that by
far I think compared to other candidates
Bernie Sanders supporters were committed
to the policies first and until Joe
Biden makes a much more fulsome effort
to hear not just hear and listen and
kind of like the the the bromides that
get thrown out but to commit to pursuing
and fighting for some of the progressive
agenda that made Bernie Sanders so
popular in which majorities of American
support but he's going to have a lot of
trouble getting a substantial number of
the Bernie camp on board it is an irony
right that for so long we heard
Democrats and their media allies
claiming that the Sanders campaign was
more akin to a cult of personality and
yet just as was true in 2016 Bernie
Sanders can have a lot more difficulty
corralling his supporters behind Joe
Biden then the Democratic establishment
had
in getting everybody to snap into line
behind Biden once he became the anointed
candidate they had no trouble at all
they were quite obedient quite
responsive to the dictates whereas as
you say the Sanders campaign is gonna
have a lot more difficulty ordering its
supporters around because Bernie Sanders
supporters are devoted not to the
candidate or to the person but to the
cause but let me ask you that about the
cause because the argument that to the
extent that there's a non bullying or
non bad faith argument being constructed
on behalf of the Biden candidacy and as
I said it's hard to find but you can
find it if you search hard enough the
argument goes something like this is you
know I'm just in your response to it to
the extent that you care about things
like Medicare for all which means
expanding health coverage for people or
raising the minimum wage or defending
policies that will benefit the working
class or eliminate income inequality Joe
Biden certainly isn't your dream
candidate he doesn't agree with your
positions such as Medicare for all but
he's gonna get more Medicare Medicaid
medical coverage and access to people
than Donald Trump will so he's
incrementally better and therefore it's
really either a matter of ideological
purity or privilege to say I don't care
about these incremental benefits and the
extent to which they're gonna help the
lives of marginalize people until the
candidate comes along who gives me
everything I want and agrees with me on
everything I'm not willing to support
them even if it means risking a second
term for Donald Trump what is your
response to that argument most we are
still in the context of a primary and
we're in the context of a primary where
a lot of still quite uncertain we have
recent allegations that have been levied
against Joe Biden we have hints from on
high that there might be efforts to try
to have other people run on the
Democratic ticket people who have
purportedly performed well with their
coronavirus response we have questions
about who's going to be chosen as a vice
president so there this is a time where
we should be actually pushing Joe Biden
to be a better candidate and to be the
more electable candidate than he will be
if he continues to run on a platform
has right now and so the effort to push
Biden to the left should be perceived
not as an effort by people who don't
care if Trump is in office it's an
effort to say we see his vulnerabilities
and now is the time for him to act to
improve upon him and that is something
that wasn't understood I think in 2016
but the critique that Hillary Clinton if
they had been dealt with honestly in the
primary and actually addresses that have
dismissed as somehow irrelevant um
pretending they don't exist in the
primary doesn't mean that they won't
manifest in a general election where you
have people on the right and the far
right who are a lot less charitable and
aren't interested in having a
conversation about rehabilitating
people's records they just want to
destroy you and to the point about
privilege as you well know Bernie
Sanders supporters were the most
working-class supporters in the race
they were the most diverse constituency
in the race and they were the most
female constituency in the race more
african-americans gave to the Bernie
Sanders campaign than any other campaign
and the same is true for all of our
metrics Bernie Sanders did better with
Latino voters than anyone else in the
race and consistently pulled second best
for the african-american voters
throughout the race so what you're
really seeing is people who don't have
privilege who don't have the ability to
sit on their laurels and say a return to
the status quo is enough who can't just
say you know who want to start their hat
in with the candidate that says nothing
will fundamentally change when things
were still fundamentally wrong before
Trump was elected so let me ask you
about one of the parts of your answer
that you just expressed which was the
idea that there are serious flaws with
Joe Biden politically and substantively
that the Republicans the right the far
right
the Trump campaign are going to very
aggressively exploit that we're treated
as you described it more generously by
Democrats generally and the Sanders
campaign particularly it's really a
difficult thing to ask people to engage
in self-reflection the Hillary can't
2016 campaign hasn't done it for years
later to date they blamed everybody else
from Russia and WikiLeaks at Jim Comey
in The New York Times and have not
engage in self-reflection it's really
probably unfair to ask somebody who's
devoted their
heart and soul - I can't candidacy for
the last year to do it essentially a
week after the the campaign I did but I
do wonder whether you agree with the
critiques voice by a lot of prominent
and very dedicated Sanders supporters
that the Sanders campaign owed it to
their followers to their supporters to
their donors and to Democrats in the
country generally to have been more
willing to highlight the flaws of Joe
Biden as a candidate and as a politician
not necessarily even to increase their
chances of winning but to make sure that
he was really vetted before he became
the nominee rather than after is that a
valid critique of your of your campaign
it's hard in part because we all know
that because of the relationship between
senator Sanders and the media that
relationship became at the media the
mainstream media anyway doesn't always
treat him fairly is that if you were to
raise a number of issues that they would
be framed as Bernie Sanders does a dirty
trick as opposed to addressing the
substance of the issue so for example I
remember there was a moment in the
campaign where Bernie Sanders was the
first campaign to unionize and Elizabeth
Warren's campaign subsequently did it as
well and our campaign and of course
there were somehow a lot of negative
stories about as unionizing etc etc
later down the line I noticed that
Elizabeth Warren's campaign although had
gotten a lot of positive press rightly
so for unionizing hadn't actually had a
stevia a collective bargaining agreement
something like a hundred and over a
hundred days after it had initially
express intent to unionize and so I
tweeted no this is an interesting story
i DM some folks nobody picked it up in
the 99th weeded out loud you know it's
interesting that under Bernie Sanders
labor plan Elizabeth campaign would be
be a couple days out from having to
undergo arbitrary made mandatory
arbitration
because they have taken so long to
actually get a CPA a go and what's going
on there and instead of actually
reporting on the story of what was going
on with their unionization efforts the
story was that about my tweet with
absolutely no substance of the
underlying issue and then of course a
couple days later they had a CPA so you
know what that's the relatively minor
issue what happens then is Bernie
Sanders says look I don't know and
nobody knows except for Tara Reid and
Bernie and Joe Biden rather what
happened in 1993 in a hallway on
Congress but Joe Biden benefits as a
candidate if he is able to address and
resolve those claims prior to entering
the general election because we all know
the argument
Donald Trump is rapier Donald Trump is
more egregious in his behavior doesn't
fly because we all sat through 2016 and
we all know that although Hillary
Clinton did nothing wrong personally has
no history at all of sexual misconduct
and has a clean slate on that measure
when when Donald Trump's personal you
know failings his sexual misconduct came
to the foreground what did he do he
instead of being contrite at the next
debate had a list of Bill Clinton
accuser sitting on the front row so he's
not gonna play there these issues aren't
gonna go away and them not being raised
by the left is not preserving their
candidate it's just making sure that
he's not battle-tested when the real
fight comes down the line so let me ask
you about these concessions that you are
saying you hope to see from the Biden
campaign either to make him more
electable or to just make him better
politically it's very easy I found to
put pretty language into a party
platform and to make a lot of
high-minded promises it's something that
I learned not just rationally which I
always knew but viscerally when I fell
for Barack Obama in 2007 on the issues
that I was most focused on which were
civil liberties and we're reversing the
war on terror abuse is only to find that
in the first year he very aggressively
continued most of those abuses and
intensified and exacerbated many of them
as well and learn the lesson that just
you know campaigns will say anything to
and as he said about Hillary Clinton in
2008 he said Hillary Clinton will say
anything to win and then change nothing
are there you know Joe Biden to somebody
who's been in public life since he's 29
when he was elected to the Senate so
it's 50 years as a senator and a vice
president he has a record as the
architect of the prison stayed defending
credit card companies against bankrupt
consumers being a corporatist being a
military as one of the key players in
the Senate for getting the authorization
to pass the Iraq war the whole record
are there really things that he could do
between now and November that could make
you change your view of who he is and
what kind of president he will be there
are two prongs to what Joe Biden has to
deal with if he wants to earn the trust
and support of the left and one is that
he has to not just commit to various
policies he has to provide some
assurance that he's actually going to
follow through when he's in office but
just difficult given as you pointed out
that he has the record a record that his
opposite in many ways of everything that
he's purported to run on now and I think
something that would help people to
trust his commitments would be a
selection of a VP that also espouses
those beliefs and other staffing and
other staffing choices that would
reflect a genuine commitment to a left
policy platform I also think that there
are certain kinds of commitments that if
you make them out loud it's more
difficult to walk back just because they
are so popular and there's so much of a
focus on them so I do think if Joe Biden
is going to say as he did in a
livestream yesterday that health care is
a human right that it's incumbent on the
left all of the left progressives
including Elizabeth Warren supporters to
say okay that's not a slogan how care is
it as a human right isn't just a slogan
you can do out to say that you have
crunchy granola feelings about people
not dying in the street in fact Donald
Trump was the one who ran in 2016 saying
people shouldn't die in the street what
you have to do is commit specifically to
a policy that treats health care as
though it's a human right and guarantees
that everyone can get treatment for all
diseases not just coronavirus all
diseases because you shouldn't die
because you're some
poor and can't afford treatment and my
policy as we all know is Medicare for
all it's popular it's supported by a
majority of Americans not just a
majority of Democrats there is no
political reason not to run on Medicare
for all especially when you have these
really convoluted debates happening
right now over who did what in Verona
buyer Solis who relief who you know shut
down flights from China at the right
time and this back-and-forth that is to
the average voter is gonna seem very
messy unclear and for a lot of people
who are favorable to Trump it's gonna
seem like Democrats not giving him
credit where they think credit is due I
think and who want to draw a bright line
about who can take care of people the
most with coronavirus relief it's going
to be about trying to guarantee people
large dollar sums in cash relief $2,000
a month at minimum and backing policies
like Medicare for all which guarantee
that everyone in the middle of a global
pandemic can actually get treatment for
healthcare not just paying for
coronavirus treatment but for also the
people who think they might have
coronavirus symptoms go to the hospital
find out that they have the flu and then
I was stuck with the high cost of their
treatment so as my last course 'print
let me ask you the following question
about the movement that arose around the
Sanders campaign and that ultimately
supported it a lot of people felt and I
think I was one of them that everything
was lined up for the best possible
chance certainly in the last couple of
decades probably in our lifetime for an
insurgent kind of left-wing populist
candidate to become the nominee of the
Democratic Party because Bernie had run
in 2016 had won 43 states had virtually
universal name recognition had
demonstrated this model of funding to
sustain a very well-funded campaign had
earned a lot of goodwill among the
Democratic electorate independents kind
of soft partisans that everything was
just very lined up aside from the fact
that the front-runner all along Jim
Biden was obviously weak and vulnerable
and auto ways and yet as it turned out
the establishment being the
establishment did what it should be
expected to do which is consolidate
there's an article in New York
this morning about the role President
Obama played in consolidating the entire
party behind one alternative instead of
letting it be fractured the way the
Republicans were against Trump in 2016
does that lead you to start wondering
whether the Democratic Party can ever be
a real vessel for empowering this
movement and whether instead this
movement on the look elsewhere or do you
continue to be optimistic about the
strategy of having a left-wing populist
insurgent movement try and infiltrate
and attach itself to the Democratic
Party I think you're right that a lot of
us are doing that sort of soul-searching
right now especially given that Bernie
Sanders as much as the campaign framed
itself as revolutionary in some respects
was hardly a radical candidate he ran on
policies that in any other similarly
situated affluent country like ours are
considered very moderate by the mill
he's a FDR Democrat right yeah I think I
German politician said here in Germany
he would be like on the scent in the
center and if you look for example in
compare Bernie Sanders to korben korben
makes Bernie Sanders look like Jeb Bush
you know maybe that's a little bit of an
overstatement but not much so you're
right he was far from a radical
candidate you know if in the face of
Bernie Sanders the corporate wing of the
Democratic Party or the corporate
Democratic Party exerts the kind of
influence that it did in orchestrating B
mass dropout before Super Tuesday which
ensured Bernie's defeat well it becomes
it's a legitimate question what will
they let through the gate if not Bernie
I don't know that we are entirely there
yet I think it will be interesting to
see what kind of pressures and
concessions we can extract from Joe
Biden as a candidate during this primary
process and it'll be interesting to see
what might happen if in fact the
Democratic Party loses again in the fall
will they be confronted with the reality
that they're kind of third weight
training
elation doesn't work anymore this
company ever did will they be forced to
make a real choice between letting go of
some of their pro capital policies and
relationships with corporate America in
order to win electoral II or are their
interest sufficiently aligned with the
right wing of this country in terms of
their economic interests that they're
actually comfortable losing again and
again as long as it is the case that
their other interests are met and I
think that framing it that way and
having our movement continue to make
clear what the but systems of power
operating in this context is gonna be
really important that was the Bernie
Sanders ultimate strength and what I
really looked forward to seeing in a
general election where you could see him
challenge Donald Trump for betraying his
promise to working-class Americans to
reveal his populism as faux populism and
what I really really don't want to
happen is for the right to completely
own this populist aesthetic retreat and
for the left for the Democratic Party to
retreat into a Bloomberg style
superficial liberalism that holds up
minority groups in a kind of tokenistic
way while pursuing right-wing economic
policies and then have working-class
people in a position where they have to
choose between Trump spoke populism
which at least gives lip service to
working-class people and a kind of
Bloomberg iam liberalism which they feel
very alienated from and that as a result
in some pretty draconian fistic outcomes
for our country so I hope people really
are clear minded about what the options
are going forward yeah absolutely I'm so
as a reminder of our viewers immediately
following this episode which will be in
just a couple minutes I will be doing a
live chat with our viewers you just need
to enter this separate part of the
intercepts YouTube channel will post the
link on on Twitter and Facebook from
both my account and the intercepts
Briana I know that it's been a really
gratifying campaign for you on the one
hand and on the other you probably were
the target of more bile and toxicity
in terms of attacks and anybody in the
Bernie Sanders campaign with the
exception possibly of the candidate
which is its own show exploring and
trying to understand why that is but I
know for a lot of standar supporters you
were one of the real bright spots of the
Sanders campaign and I really appreciate
the work you've done over the last year
particularly given everything you've had
to endure and I appreciate your taking
the time to talk to me as well thank you
for all of the work and advocacy you and
the intercept you've been doing all
right Briana thanks so much